Welcome to the module regular expression.
After completing this module will be able to Define regular
expression make use of pattern and
marcher clause and perform validation using string Methods
using regular expression.
Regular expression was introduced in Java version 4
regular expression is used for defining string
patterns, which can then be used for searching manipulating and
editing a text. These expressions are also
known as regex short form of regular Expressions
example of a regular expression pattern
a minus said plus which can be used
to match a sequence of lowercase alphabets.
The API for regular expression is available
in java.util.triguex package.
It has one interface and three classes. The
classes are pattern matcha Patton
syntax exception.
A pattern object is a compiled version of
regular expression. This class does not
have a Constructor. So the object for this class
is created using the static method compiled in
the pattern class for this method. We have to
pass the regular expression pattern that needs to
be compared.
Matcha object is a regular expression engine
that interprets the pattern and marches the
regular expression against the text like pattern.
This class also does not have a Constructor.
The object is created using the pattern object
pattern has a method called marches which
takes the string that needs to be compared as input. Thus
Macho macher equals
pattern dot marches of the text that is to be compared and
is passed as parameter.
Consider the sample program an object is
created for pattern with the regular expression pattern to
be compared. Next an object is created for
marcher where we have passed the string that is to be compared and
we have used few methods of marcher for performing the
check the matcha methods test whether the regular
expression matches the pattern here we have
used a method find
Method finds the next expression that matches the
pattern.
Also, we have used one more method group group method
Returns the Matched subsequence.
The character classes are used to define what characters the
pattern should look for the table here depicts the
regular expression description of what that regular
expression does along with an example for each and
every pattern that can be used.
The example code explains how the character classes can
be used in a program.
Like character classes. We have something called as
quantifiers.
This quantifiers specifies the number of
occurrence of a character.
For example, if I say the name of a person it should contain only
alphabets so I can give it as a to z
but not only a to zed. If it is a to z it
will accept only one character, but it can accept multiple characters.
So I have to write with a bracket A
to Z followed by a plus dot which means occurrences one
or more times the table here represents the various
quantifiers that are available for a regular expression.
If we have to match for digits alone use within brackets
as 0 to 9.
Similarly for alphabets A to Z or
A to Z use it within brackets as small AZ and
capital A to Z but there are some short codes that can be
used instead of writing this this we call
as meta characters the various meta characters
that are available as a regular expression are shown in
this table.
Also to make it very simple we can do validation of
the input using the method marches which is available in the
well-known string class.
Cures an example which explains how the validation can
be done using the marches method in string in
the first statement. The pattern that is passed is
a to z capital A to Z with a space. This is
compared with the string literal Rosie, which returns true
in the last case it Compares with David 234 as
234 is not matching
the pattern it returns false.
The sequence of characters received as input from the user can
be validated against a pattern using character class
quantifiers and met a characters
or just using the matches method in
the string class.
The example code explains how the input received
from the user can be validated by using a combination
of character classes quantifiers and
meta characters.
This is another example for validating an input.
Assume that we get a phone number and that phone number should have
only 10 digits and it should start with digits like
7 8 or 9.
That validation is done in this code. If you
see the pattern the first pattern is given as seven to
nine, which means the first character should be either
7 8 or 9 followed by 0 to 9
within curly brackets. We have given it as 9 which
means 0 to 9 should occur 9 times so it
will accept exactly 10 digits with the first digit
peeing either 7 8 or 9.
After completing this Mortal you wouldn't have learned to understand
regular expression in Java understand
pattern class understand martial class
understand string Methods understand validating
data.
Thank you.